- [Narrator] So now that we've discussed at a high level
what the JCA and the JCE are,
let's talk about the actual details of the JCA itself.
Now, one of the first engines that we will come across
is the secure random engine.
Now, this engine is used to create
cryptographically strong random numbers.
And it's important to note that what you get
from Java.lang random is not sufficiently
secure enough to be used for cryptographic functions.
There's just simply not enough entropy
in how the random number is generated.
Now, secure random is really a requirement
for good crypto operations in Java.
And as such, it's often used for seeds
for things like keys as well as other algorithm needs.
Now the next engine and the one that I
actually happen to use more than anything else
is the message digest engine.
Now this is used to produce cryptographically secure hashes.
Now a hash or digest is a unique one way operation
where we take a fixed sized output
from a variable sized input
and that really is key to how a hash operation works
and a sufficient hash operation
will have very few collisions over a very large input set.
Now a signature is another engine
that we will use throughout this course.
And it is an engine to create
and validate digital signatures.
Now, digital signatures are unique in that
they take a combination of a hash
and a public key encryption asymmetric operation
to create a unique value or a signature.
Now that signature can be verified
to produce a hash that is equal to the original
based on a decryption operation.
Now this is very very useful in cases of identity.
Not only across distributed networks
but even within an enclosed network
or a closed set of devices such as IOT.
Now one of the final classes that we're going to talk about
is the cipher engine.
And the cipher engine is by far the most common
that the average person uses
when they come into Java crypto.
It is the engine to provide encryption operations.
Now cipher provides both support for asymmetric
and symmetric encryption operations
and if you're not sure what those terms mean
we'll talk about that
when we get to ciphers in a little bit.
But the cipher engine also supports stream block ciphers.
Now, we're going to be using block ciphers in this course
and it's important to note that block ciphers
require a standard sized input as well as a key
and as such, we're gonna have to apply padding
to our block cipher
and we'll get more into that as well
when we get into the cipher operations.
Now there's one other key construct
that often gets mixed in with Java crypto.
And that is the concept of stores.
And really there's a couple of primary stores
that you as a developer may come into contact with.
The first is a key store.
And a Java key store as you might imagine
is used to store keys
and their cryptographic keys that are used
for PKI or symmetric encryption operations.
The second type of store that you might
come into contact with is a trust store.
And a trust store is used to store certificates
or certificate chains to confirm validity of a remote site.
Now more often than not if you're working
within these stores you're gonna do so through keytool
and in this course that's how we're going to manipulate
a Java key store is through keytool itself.
So with all of that being said,
it's time to jump in and deal with our first engine.